# ABSTRACT
           
Now-a-days biometric systems are useful in recognizing person’s identity but criminals change their appearance in behavior and psychological to deceive recognition system. To overcome from this problem we are using new technique called Deep Texture Features extraction from images and then building train machine learning model using CNN (Convolution Neural Networks) algorithm. This technique refer as LBPNet or NLBPNet as this technique heavily dependent on features extraction using LBP (Local Binary Pattern) algorithm.

In this project we are designing LBP Based machine learning Convolution Neural Network called LBPNET to detect fake face images. Here first we will extract LBP from images and then train LBP descriptor images with Convolution Neural Network to generate training model. Whenever we upload new test image then that test image will be applied on training model to detect whether test image contains fake image or non-fake image. Below we can see some details on LBP. 
Local binary patterns (LBP) is a type of visual descriptor used for classification in computer vision and is a simple yet very efficient texture operator which labels the pixels of an image by thresholding the neighborhood of each pixel and consider the result as a binary number. Due to its discriminative power and computational simplicity, LBP texture operator has become a popular approach in various applications. It can be seen as a unifying approach to the traditionally divergent statistical and structural models of texture analysis. Perhaps the most important property of the LBP operator in real-world applications is its robustness to monotonic gray-scale changes caused, for example, by illumination variations. Another important property is its computational simplicity, which makes it possible to analyze images in challenging real-time settings.
The LBP feature vector, in its simplest form, is created in the following manner:
 Divide the examined window into cells (e.g 16x16 pixels for each cell). 
For each pixel in a cell, compare the pixel to each of its 8 neighbors (on its left-top, left-middle, left-bottom, right-top, etc.). Follow the pixels along a circle, i.e. clockwise or counter-clockwise. 
Where the center pixel's value is greater than the neighbor's value, write "0". Otherwise, write "1". This gives an 8-digit binary number (which is usually converted to decimal for convenience).
Compute the histogram, over the cell, of the frequency of each "number" occurring (i.e., each combination of which pixels are smaller and which are greater than the center). This histogram can be seen as a 256-dimensional feature vector.
 Optionally normalize the histogram. Concatenate (normalized) histograms of all cells. This gives a feature vector for the entire window.
The feature vector can now be processed using the Support vector machine, extreme learning machines, or some other machine learning algorithm to classify images. Such classifiers can be used for face recognition or texture analysis. 
[MINI PROJECT_doc.pdf](https://github.com/chandu1413/Fake-image-identification-using-ML/files/10795482/MINI.PROJECT_doc.pdf)

